README.md, before:

# schemati
Extract critical information from P&ID diagrams and other similar schematics using ML on Databricks

## Components

### Backend
Contains the core functionality for interacting with Databricks volumes, including:
- `VolumeHandler` class for file operations
- Authentication and configuration management
- Logging utilities

### Frontend
A Streamlit web application for uploading files to Databricks volumes:
- Drag-and-drop file upload interface
- Overwrite option control
- Real-time upload progress and feedback

## Quick Start

### Running the Frontend
```bash
# Install dependencies
uv sync

# Run the Streamlit app
uv run streamlit run frontend/app.py
```

### Configuration
Set up your environment variables in a `.env` file (see `.env.template` for reference).

Extract critical information from P&ID diagrams and other similar schematics using ML on Databricks

## Development

### CI/CD

This repository uses GitHub Actions for continuous integration and deployment:

- **Backend Tests**: Automated testing on Python 3.13.2
- **Code Quality**: Linting, formatting, and type checking with ruff, black, isort, and mypy
- **Dependency Updates**: Automated via Dependabot

### Running Tests Locally

```bash
# Install dependencies with uv
uv sync --dev

# Run tests
PYTHONPATH=. uv run pytest backend/tests/ -v

# Run code quality checks
PYTHONPATH=. uv run ruff check backend/
PYTHONPATH=. uv run black --check backend/
PYTHONPATH=. uv run isort --check-only backend/
PYTHONPATH=. uv run mypy backend/
```

### Pre-commit Hooks

```bash
# Install pre-commit with uv
uv run pip install pre-commit

# Install hooks
uv run pre-commit install

# Run manually
uv run pre-commit run --all-files
```

## Repository Setup

See [docs/repository-setup.md](docs/repository-setup.md) for instructions on configuring branch protection rules and required status checks.

Commit message:

Update README.md with "how it works" section

README.md, after:

# schemati
Extract critical information from P&ID diagrams and other similar schematics using ML on Databricks.

## How It Works
- P&ID diagrams in either PDF or image format are loaded from either a Databricks Volume or a local directory.
- A `Document` object made up of `Page` objects is created for each file. We extract metdata from the `Page` objects using a foundation model.
- Research on P&ID diagram has frequently noted that diagram understanding is improved when they are broken up into smaller components. Therefore, we allow `Page` objects to be split into `PageFragment` objects, which are smaller sections of the original page.
- Each `PageFragment` is processed to extract critical information such as:
  - Equipment tags
  - Pipe tags
  - Valve tags
  - Instrument tags
- We take the metadata extracted from the `PageFragment` objects, combine it and de-duplicate it into metadata for the original `Page` object.

## Components

### Backend
Contains the core functionality for interacting with Databricks volumes, including:
- `VolumeHandler` class for file operations
- Authentication and configuration management
- Logging utilities

### Frontend
A Streamlit web application for uploading files to Databricks volumes:
- Drag-and-drop file upload interface
- Overwrite option control
- Real-time upload progress and feedback

## Quick Start

### Running the Frontend
```bash
# Install dependencies
uv sync

# Run the Streamlit app
uv run streamlit run frontend/app.py
```

### Configuration
Set up your environment variables in a `.env` file (see `.env.template` for reference).

Extract critical information from P&ID diagrams and other similar schematics using ML on Databricks

## Development

### CI/CD

This repository uses GitHub Actions for continuous integration and deployment:

- **Backend Tests**: Automated testing on Python 3.13.2
- **Code Quality**: Linting, formatting, and type checking with ruff, black, isort, and mypy
- **Dependency Updates**: Automated via Dependabot

### Running Tests Locally

```bash
# Install dependencies with uv
uv sync --dev

# Run tests
PYTHONPATH=. uv run pytest backend/tests/ -v

# Run code quality checks
PYTHONPATH=. uv run ruff check backend/
PYTHONPATH=. uv run black --check backend/
PYTHONPATH=. uv run isort --check-only backend/
PYTHONPATH=. uv run mypy backend/
```

### Pre-commit Hooks

```bash
# Install pre-commit with uv
uv run pip install pre-commit

# Install hooks
uv run pre-commit install

# Run manually
uv run pre-commit run --all-files
```

## Repository Setup

See [docs/repository-setup.md](docs/repository-setup.md) for instructions on configuring branch protection rules and required status checks.
